<chapter id="menu-entries">
<chapterinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author><personname><firstname></firstname></personname></author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>
</chapterinfo>
<title>Menu Entries</title>

<!--FIXME: use formatting and anchors consistently throughout this docbook-->

<sect1 id="file-menu">
<title>The File Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="new"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>starts a new document</action> in the editing
window.  In the <guibutton>Documents</guibutton> list on the left the new file
is named <emphasis>Untitled</emphasis>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="open"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>O</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays a standard &kde; <guilabel>Open File</guilabel>
dialog. Use the file view to select the file you want to open, and
click on <guibutton>Open</guibutton> to open it.</para>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="open-recent"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Open Recent</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This is a shortcut to open recently saved documents. Clicking on this
item opens a list to the side of the menu with several of the most
recently saved files. Clicking on a specific file will open it in
&kappname; - if the file still resides at the same
location.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="open-with"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Open With</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This submenu presents a list of applications known to handle the mime type
of your current document. Activating an entry will open the current document
with that application.</para>
<para>In addition, an entry <guimenuitem>Other...</guimenuitem> launches
the open with dialog box that allows you to <action>select another application
to open the active file</action>. Your file will still be open in &kate;.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="save"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>S</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>saves your file</action>. Use it often. If the file is
<emphasis>Untitled</emphasis> then
<guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem> becomes
<guimenuitem>Save As</guimenuitem>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="save-as"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save As...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Name and rename files</action> with this command.
It launches the save file dialog box. This dialog works just as
the open file dialog box does. You can use it to navigate through
your file system, preview existing files, or filter your file
view with file masks.
</para>

<para>
Type the name you want to give the file you are saving in the
Location combo box and press the
<guibutton>OK</guibutton> button.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="save-all"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>L</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save All</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>saves all modified open files</action>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="reload"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F5</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Reload</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Reloads the active file</action>.  This command is
useful if another program or process has changed the file while you have
it open in &kate;
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="reload-all"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Reload All</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Reloads all opened files.</action>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="print"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Print...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Print the active file</action>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="export-as-html"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Export as &HTML;...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Save the currently open document as an &HTML; file, which will be
formatted using the current syntax highlighting and color scheme settings.</para>
<para>This menu item is displayed by the Exporter editor component extension,
which is enabled by default.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term id="close">
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>W</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Close</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Close the active file with this command. If you have made unsaved changes, you
will be prompted to save the file before &kate; closes it.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="close-other"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Close Other</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Close other open documents.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="close-all"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Close All</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>closes all the files you have open</action>
in &kate;.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="close-orphaned"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Close Orphaned</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Close</action> all documents in the file list, which could
not be reopened during startup, because they are not accessible anymore.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="close-except"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Close Except</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Close</action> all documents in the file list, 
<emphasis>except</emphasis> those which match the path selected from this
submenu.</para>
<para>This menu item is displayed by the Close Except/Like plugin, which is
enabled by default.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="close-like"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Close Like</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Close</action> all documents in the file list which match the path 
selected from this submenu.</para>
<para>This menu item is displayed by the Close Except/Like plugin, which is
enabled by default.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="quit"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>closes &kate;</action> and any files you were
editing. If you have made unsaved changes to any of the files you were
editing, you will be prompted to save them.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="edit-menu">
<title>The Edit Menu</title>
<para>The <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> menu contains a host of commands,
all to work with the currently active document.</para>

<variablelist>
<title>Menu Entries</title>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-undo"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Undo</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Undo the last editing command (typing, copying, cutting etc.)</para>
<note><para>This may undo several editing commands of the same type, like typing
in characters.</para></note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-redo"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Redo</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Redo the last undo step.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-cut"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>X</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Cut</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Removes selected text if any, and places a copy of the removed text in the clipboard.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-copy"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>C</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Copy</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Copies selected text, if any, to the clipboard.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-paste" />
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>V</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Paste</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Copies the first item in the clipboard into the editor at cursor position.</para>
<note><para>If Overwrite Selection is enabled, the pasted text will overwrite the selection, if any.</para></note>
 </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-clipboard-history"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Clipboard History</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This submenu will display the beginning of portions of text recently
copied to the clipboard.  Select an item from this menu to paste it in the
currently open file.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-copy-as-html"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Copy as &HTML;</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Copy the selection as &HTML;, formatted using the current syntax
highlighting and color scheme settings.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-select-all"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>A</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Select All</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Selects all text in the editor.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-deselect"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>A</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Deselect</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Deselects the selected text in the editor if any.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-toggle-block-selection"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;
<keycap>B</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Block Selection Mode</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Toggles Selection Mode. When the Selection Mode is <quote>BLOCK</quote>, you can make vertical selections,
&eg; select column 5 to 10 in lines 9 to 15.</para>
<para>The status bar shows the current state of the Selection Mode, either <quote>LINE</quote> or <quote>BLOCK</quote>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="vi-input-mode"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul"><keysym>Meta</keysym>&Ctrl;<keycap>V</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>VI input
Mode</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Switch to a vi-like, modal editing mode. This mode supports the most used commands
and motions from vim's normal and visual mode and has an optional vi mode status bar.
This status bar shows commands while they are being entered, output from commands and
the current mode.The behavior of this mode can be configured in the
<ulink url="help:/katepart/config-dialog-editor.html#pref-edit-vi-input-mode">Vi
Input Mode</ulink> section of the <guilabel>Editing</guilabel> page in 
&kappname;'s settings dialog.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="overwrite-mode"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ins</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Overwrite
Mode</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Toggles the Insert/Overwrite modes. When the mode is <guilabel>INS</guilabel>, you
insert characters where the cursor is. When the mode is <guilabel>OVR</guilabel>, writing
characters will replace the current characters if your cursor is positioned
before any character. The status bar shows the current state of the Overwrite
Mode, either <guilabel>INS</guilabel> or <guilabel>OVR</guilabel>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-find"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Find...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Launch the incremental search bar to allow you to search for text in the edited document.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-find-next"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F3</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guisubmenu>Find Variants</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Find Next</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
 <listitem>
<para>Go to the nearest downwards match of the last text or regular expression searched for, starting from cursor position</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-find-previous"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>F3</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guisubmenu>Find Variants</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Find Previous</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Go to the nearest upwards match of the last text or regular expression searched for, starting from cursor position</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term id="find-selected">
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>H</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guisubmenu>Find Variants</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Find Selected</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Finds next occurrence of selected text.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term id="find-selected-backwards">
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>H</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guisubmenu>Find Variants</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Find Selected Backwards</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Finds previous occurrence of selected text.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-replace"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>R</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Replace...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Launch the power search and replace bar to replace one or more instances of a defined text with something else.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-go-to-line"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>G</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Go to Line...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Launches the Go To Line bar, allowing you to enter the number of a line to find in
the document</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-search-in-files"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Search in Files</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Launches the Search and Replace tool view.  This provides more advanced
functionality than the
<link linkend="edit-replace"><guimenuitem>Replace</guimenuitem></link> menu 
item described above, which can only search in the currently open document.
It allows you to search either within all open files, in a directory of your
choosing, or within the currently open project.</para>
<para>This menu item is displayed by the Search &amp; Replace plugin, which is
enabled by default.  For more information, see 
<xref linkend="kate-application-plugin-searchinfiles"/></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-go-to-next-match"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Go to Next Match</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Go to the next match in a search performed by the Search and Replace
plugin.  To go to the next match in a single file search initiated by the
<link linkend="edit-find"><guimenuitem>Find</guimenuitem></link> command, use 
<link linkend="edit-find-next"><guimenuitem>Find Next</guimenuitem></link>.</para>
<para>This menu item is displayed by the Search &amp; Replace plugin, which is
enabled by default.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-go-to-previous-match"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Go to Previous Match</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Go to the previous match in a search performed by the Search and Replace
plugin.  To go to the previous match in a single file search initiated by the
<link linkend="edit-find"><guimenuitem>Find</guimenuitem></link> command, use 
<link linkend="edit-find-previous"><guimenuitem>Find Previous</guimenuitem></link>.
</para>
<para>This menu item is displayed by the Search &amp; Replace plugin, which is
enabled by default.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="view-menu">
<title>The View Menu</title>

<para>The <guimenu>View</guimenu> menu allows you to manage settings
specific to the active editor, and to manage frames.</para>

<variablelist>
<title>Menu Items</title>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-new"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New Window</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Opens another instance of &kate;</action>.
The new instance will be identical to your previous instance.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-back"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keysym>Left</keysym></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Previous Document</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens the document displayed above the currently open document in the Documents list.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-forward"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keysym>Right</keysym></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Next Document</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens the document displayed below the currently open document in the Documents list.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-active"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Active</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays the currently open document in the Documents list.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-quick-open"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Alt;<keycap>O</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Quick Open</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Show a search field and a list of opened files in the editor area.
While entering text in the search
field the document names and document &URL;s are searched for matching text.
While entering text in the search field you can use
the cursor keys <keysym>Up</keysym> and <keysym>Down</keysym> to navigate in the
list view. Pressing the &Enter; key or double clicking on an item in the list switches
the view to the document selected in the list view. This makes switching between
documents easier, if there are a lot of them open.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-split-previous"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>F8</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guisubmenu>Split View</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Previous Split View</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Focus the previous document view, if you have split the editor
area in more views.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-split-next"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>F8</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guisubmenu>Split View</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Next Split View</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Focus the next document view, if you have split the editor
area in more views.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-split-vertical"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>L</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guisubmenu>Split View</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Split Vertical</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This will split the frame (which may be the main editing area) in two equally sized frames,
the new one to the left of the current one. The new frame gets the focus, and will display the
same document as the old one.</para>
<para>See also <link linkend="kate-mdi">Working with the &kate; MDI</link></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-split-horizontal"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>T</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guisubmenu>Split View</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Split Horizontal</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Splits the current frame (which may be the main editing area) in two equally sized frames,
the new one below the current one. The new frame gets the focus, and displays the same document as
the old one.</para>
<para>See also <link linkend="kate-mdi">Working with the &kate; MDI</link></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-close-current"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>R</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guisubmenu>Split View</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Close Current View</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Closes the active frame, which can be identified as the one displaying a
blinking cursor.  This is disabled, if there is only one frame
(the main editing area).</para> <para>No documents get closed by closing a
frame &ndash; they will still be available in the <link
linkend="view-menu"><guimenu>View</guimenu> Menu</link> as well as in
the File List.</para> <para>See also <link linkend="kate-mdi">Working with the
&kate; MDI</link></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-close-inactive"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guisubmenu>Split View</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Close Inactive Views</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Closes all frames except the active frame (the one with a blinking cursor). 
This is disabled, if there is only one frame (the main editing area).</para>
<para>No documents get closed by closing a frame &ndash; they will still be 
available in the <link linkend="view-menu"><guimenu>View</guimenu> Menu</link>
as well as in the File List.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-move-splitter-left"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guisubmenu>Split View</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Move Splitter Left</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>When Split View is enabled, this will move the border between two
vertically split documents further left.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-move-splitter-right"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guisubmenu>Split View</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Move Splitter Right</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>When Split View is enabled, this will move the border between two
vertically split documents further right.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-move-splitter-up"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guisubmenu>Split View</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Move Splitter Up</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>When Split View is enabled, this will move the border between two
horizontally split documents further up.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-move-splitter-down"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guisubmenu>Split View</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Move Splitter Down</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>When Split View is enabled, this will move the border between two
horizontally split documents further down.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>View</guimenu><guisubmenu>Tool Views</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="view-toolviews-show-sidebars"/>
<menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Alt;&Shift;<keycap>F</keycap>
</keycombo></shortcut><guimenu>View</guimenu><guisubmenu>Tool Views</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Sidebars</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggles the display of the sidebar button rows. This command
does not affect the display of the sidebar content widgets, any sidebar that
is visible will stay visible, and if you assigned shortcuts to the
commands below those will of course continue to work.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-toolviews-show-filelist"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guisubmenu>Tool Views</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Documents</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Toggle the display of &kate;'s Documents list</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-toolviews-show-search-and-replace"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guisubmenu>Tool Views</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Search and Replace</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays the advanced Search and Replace tool view, which supports
searching through multiple files.  For more information, see 
<xref linkend="kate-application-plugin-searchinfiles"/>.</para>
<para>This menu item is displayed by the Search &amp; Replace plugin, which is
enabled by default.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-toolviews-show-projects"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guisubmenu>Tool Views</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Projects</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays the Projects sidebar, which allows you to view a list of open
projects and a list of files in those projects.</para>
<para>This menu item is displayed by the Project plugin, which is
enabled by default.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-toolviews-show-current-project"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guisubmenu>Tool Views</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Current Project</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays the Current Project tool view, which allows you to access details
about the code contained within the currently open project.</para>
<para>This menu item is displayed by the Project plugin, which is
enabled by default.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycap>F7</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guimenuitem>Switch to Command Line</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This command will toggle the display of the
<ulink url="help:/katepart/advanced-editing-tools-commandline.html">built-in 
command line</ulink>.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show the Javascript Console</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This opens a tool view that allows you to run Javascript code
interactively. For more information, see
<link linkend="dev-scripting">Extending &kate; with Scripts</link>.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>View</guimenu><guisubmenu>Schema</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This menu lists the available color schemes. You can change the 
schema for the current view here, to change the default schema you need to
use the <ulink url="help:/katepart/config-dialog-editor.html#prefcolors">Fonts 
&amp; Colors</ulink> page of the config dialog.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F10</keycap>
</keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guimenuitem>Dynamic Word Wrap</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><para>Toggles dynamic word wrap in the current view. Dynamic word
wrap makes all the text in a view visible without the need for horizontal
scrolling by rendering one actual line on more visual lines as needed.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-dynamic-word-wrap-indicators"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Dynamic Word Wrap Indicators</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Choose when and how the dynamic word wrap indicators should be
displayed. This is only available if the <guilabel>Dynamic Word
Wrap</guilabel> option is checked.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>View</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show Static Word
Wrap Marker</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggles the display of a vertical line indicating the position
of the wrap width as configured in the
<ulink url="help:/katepart/config-dialog-editor.html#pref-wrap-words-at">config
dialog</ulink>. This feature requires that you use a true fixed-width font.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-show-icon-border"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F6</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Icon Border</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This is a toggle item. Setting it to be checked will make the Icon Border
visible in the left side of the active editor, and vice versa. The Icon Border
indicates the positions of the marked lines in the editor.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-show-line-numbers"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F11</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Line Numbers</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This is a toggle Item. Setting it to be checked will make a pane displaying
the line numbers of the document visible in the left border of the active editor,
and vice versa.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>View</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show Scrollbar
Marks</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggles the visualization of bookmarks (and other marks) on the
vertical scrollbar. When enabled, a mark is represented by a thin line in the
mark color at the scrollbar, clicking the &MMB; on the line will scroll the view
to a position near the mark.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>View</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show Scrollbar
Minimap</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This will replace the scrollbar with a visualization of the
current document. For more information on the scrollbar minimap, see the
<ulink url="help:/katepart/kate-part-scrollbar-minimap.html">Scrollbar Minimap
section of the &katepart; Handbook</ulink>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F9</keycap>
</keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show Folding Markers</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggles the display of the folding marker pane in the left
side of the view. See 
<ulink url="help:/katepart/advanced-editing-tools-code-folding.html">Using Code 
Folding</ulink>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-code-folding"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guimenuitem>Code Folding</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>These options pertain to
<ulink url="help:/katepart/advanced-editing-tools-code-folding.html">code 
folding</ulink>:</para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Fold Current Node</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><para>Collapse the region that contains the cursor.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Unfold Current Node</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><para>Expand the region that contains the cursor.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
&Shift;<keycap>-</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Fold Toplevel Nodes</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><para>Collapse all toplevel regions in the document.
Click on the right pointing triangle to expand all toplevel regions.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<!--FIXME not implemented in 4.11
varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
&Shift;<keycap>+</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Unfold Toplevel Nodes</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><para>Expand all toplevel regions in the document.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry-->
</variablelist>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>+</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guimenuitem>Enlarge Font</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><para>This increases the display font size.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>-</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guimenuitem>Shrink Font</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><para>This decreases the display font size.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="projects-menu">
<title>The Projects Menu</title>

<para>The <guimenu>Projects</guimenu> menu allows you to switch between
currently open projects.  It is displayed by the Project plugin, which is
enabled by default.</para>

<variablelist>
<title>Menu Items</title>

<!--FIXME: these shortcuts conflict with the preexisting Build plugin
            https://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=328170 -->

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="projects-back"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Alt;<keysym>Left</keysym></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Projects</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Back</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Switch to the previous project.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="projects-forward"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Alt;<keysym>Right</keysym></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Projects</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Forward</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Switch to the next project.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="bookmarks-menu">
<title>The Bookmarks Menu</title>

<para>The <guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu> menu allows you to work with
the bookmarks in the currently active document.</para>

<para>Below the entries described here, one entry for each bookmark in
the active document will be available. The text will be the first few
words of the marked line. Choose an item to move the cursor to the
start of that line. The editor will scroll as necessary to make that
line visible.</para>

<variablelist>

<title>Menu Items</title>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="bookmarks-toggle-bookmark"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>B</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Set Bookmark</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Sets or removes a bookmark in the current line of the active document.
(If it's there, it is removed, otherwise one is set.)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="bookmarks-clear-bookmarks"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Clear All Bookmarks</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Clears (removes) all bookmarks in the active document.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="bookmarks-previous">
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Alt;
<keycap>PgUp</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu><guimenuitem>Previous</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><para>This will move the cursor to beginning of the first above line
with a bookmark. The menuitem text will include the line number and the first
piece of text on the line. This item is only available when there is a bookmark
in a line above the cursor.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="bookmarks-next">
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Alt;
<keycap>PgDown</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu><guimenuitem>Next</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This will move the cursor to the beginning of the next line with a
bookmark. The menuitem text will include the line number and the first piece of
text on the line. This item is only available when there is a bookmark in a line
below the cursor.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="sessions-menu">
<title>The Sessions Menu</title>

<para>This menu contains entries for using and managing &kate; sessions.
For more information, read <link
linkend="fundamentals-using-sessions">Using Sessions</link>.</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry id="sessions-new">
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Sessions</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Creates a new empty session. All currently open files will
be closed.</para></listitem>

</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="sessions-open">
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Sessions</guimenu><guimenuitem>Open Session...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Open an existing session. The Session Chooser dialog is
displayed to let you choose one.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="sessions-quick-open">
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Sessions</guimenu><guisubmenu>Quick Open Session</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This submenu lets you open an existing session.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="sessions-save">
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Sessions</guimenu><guimenuitem>Save Session</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Save the current session. If the session is anonymous, you will
be prompted for a session name.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="sessions-save-as">
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Sessions</guimenu><guimenuitem>Save Session
As...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Save the current session under a new name. You are prompted for
a name to use.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="sessions-manage">
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Sessions</guimenu><guimenuitem>Manage Sessions...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Displays the Session Manager dialog which allows you to rename
and delete sessions.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>


</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="tools-menu">

<title>The Tools Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-read-only"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Read Only Mode</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
 <listitem>
<para>Set the current document to Read Only mode. This prevents any text
addition and any changes in the document formatting.</para>
 </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-filetype"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Mode</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
 <listitem>
<para>Choose the filetype scheme you prefer for the active document. This
overwrites the global
<ulink url="help:/katepart/pref-open-save-modes-filetypes.html">filetype</ulink>
mode set in <menuchoice> <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Configure
&kate;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> in the Filetypes tab for your current
document only.</para>
 </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-highlighting"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Highlighting</guisubmenu></menuchoice></term>
 <listitem>
<para>Choose the Highlighting scheme you prefer for the active document. This
overwrites the global highlighting mode set in <menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Configure Editor...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice> for your current document only.</para>
 </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-indentation"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Indentation</guisubmenu></menuchoice></term>
 <listitem>
<para>Choose the <ulink url="help:/katepart/kate-part-autoindent.html">style of
indentation</ulink> you want for your active document.
This overwrites the global indentation mode set in <menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Configure Editor...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice> for your current document only.</para>
 </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-encoding"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Encoding</guisubmenu></menuchoice></term>
 <listitem>
<para>You can overwrite the default encoding set in <menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure
Editor...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> in the <guilabel>Open/Save</guilabel> page
to set a different encoding for your current document. The encoding you
set here will be only valid for your current document.
  <!-- Explain disabled and add link to config page here?-->
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-end-of-line"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>End of Line</guisubmenu></menuchoice></term>
 <listitem>
<para>Choose your preferred end of line mode for your active
document. This overwrites the global end of line mode set in <menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Configure Editor...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice> for your current document only.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-add-byte-mark-order"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Add Byte Mark Order (BOM)</guisubmenu></menuchoice></term>
 <listitem>
<para>Checking this action you can explicitly add a byte order mark for unicode
encoded documents. The byte order mark (BOM) is a Unicode character used to signal
the endianness (byte order) of a text file or stream, for more information see
<ulink url="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byte_Order_Mark">Byte Order Mark</ulink>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-scripts"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Scripts</guisubmenu></menuchoice></term>
 <listitem>
<para>This submenu contains a list of all scripted actions. The list can easily be
modified by 
<ulink url="help:/katepart/dev-scripting.html#dev-scripting-command-line">writing 
your own scripts</ulink>. This way, &kate; can be extended with user-defined tools.
</para>

<para><ulink url="help:/katepart/tools.html#scripts">There is a complete list of
scripts in the &katepart; documentation.</ulink></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Space</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Invoke Code Completion</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Manually invoke command completion, usually by using a shortcut bound to this action.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Word Completion</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>Reuse Word Below</guimenuitem> (<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>9</keycap></keycombo>) and <guimenuitem>Reuse Word Above</guimenuitem>
(<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl; <keycap>8</keycap></keycombo>) complete
the currently typed text by searching for similar
words backward or forward from the current cursor position. <guimenuitem>Shell
Completion</guimenuitem> pops up a completion box with matching entries.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>O</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guisubmenu>Spelling</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Automatic Spell Checking</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>When <guimenuitem>Automatic Spell Checking</guimenuitem> is enabled, wrongly spelled text
is underlined in the document on-the-fly.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-spelling"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guisubmenu>Spelling</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>Spelling...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
</term>

<listitem><para><action>This initiates the spellchecking program - a program
designed to help the user catch and correct any spelling errors.</action></para>

<para>For more information on how to use the &kde; spellchecking program, see the
<ulink url="help:/fundamentals/spellcheck.html"><emphasis>Check Spelling</emphasis>
section of the <emphasis>&kde; Fundamentals</emphasis> documentation</ulink>.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-spelling-from-cursor"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guisubmenu>Spelling</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Spelling (from cursor)...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
 <listitem>
<para>This initiates the spellchecking program but it starts from where your cursor
is instead of at the beginning of the document.</para>
 </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-spellcheck-selection"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guisubmenu>Spelling</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Spellcheck Selection...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
 <listitem>
<para>Spellchecks the current selection.</para>
 </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-change-dictionary"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guisubmenu>Spelling</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Change Dictionary</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
 <listitem>
<para>Displays a drop down box with all available dictionaries for spellchecking
at the bottom of the editor window. This allows easy switching of the spellcheck
dictionary &eg; for automatic spellchecking of text in different languages.</para>
 </listitem>
</varlistentry>
<!-- Indent/Unindent no longer in the menu in 4.11???, but shortcuts work
<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="indent"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>I</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guimenuitem>Indent</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>This increases the paragraph's indentation by one step. The size of the
step depends on the <link linkend="pref-edit-indent"> indentation
settings</link>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

 <varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-unindent"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>I</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guimenuitem>Unindent</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>This reduces the paragraph's indentation by one step. The size of the step
depends on the <link linkend="pref-edit-indent"> indentation settings</link>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
-->
<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-cleanindent"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guimenuitem>Clean
Indentation</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>  <listitem>
<para>This cleans the indentation for the current selection or for the
line the cursor is currently in. Cleaning the indentation ensures that
all your selected text follows the indentation mode you choose.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-align"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Align</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Causes a realign of the current line or selected lines using the
indentation mode and indentation settings in the document.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-comment"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>D</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Comment</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This adds one space to the beginning of the line
where the text cursor is located or to the beginning of any
selected lines.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-uncomment"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>D</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Uncomment</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This removes one space (if any exist) from the beginning of the
line where the text cursor is located or from the beginning of any
selected lines.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-uppercase"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>U</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Uppercase</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Put the selected text or the letter after the cursor in
uppercase.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-lowercase"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>U</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Lowercase</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Put the selected text or the letter after the cursor in
lowercase.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-capitalize"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Alt;&Ctrl;<keycap>U</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Capitalize</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Capitalize the selected text or the current
word.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-join-lines"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>J</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Join Lines</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Joins the selected lines, or the current line and the line below
with one white space character as a separator. Leading/trailing white space on
joined lines is removed in the affected ends.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-word-wrap-document"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Apply Word Wrap</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Apply static word wrapping on all the document. That means that
a new line of text will automatically start when the current
line exceeds the length specified by the <guilabel>Wrap words at</guilabel> option
in the Editing tab in <menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
Editor...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-create-snippet"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Create Snippet</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Create a new snippet, which is a reusable chunk of text you
may insert in any part of any document.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-snippets"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Snippets...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Display a list of available snippets.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
<para>Menu items for the selected
<ulink url="help:/katepart/config-dialog-editor.html#pref-plugins">plugins</ulink>
are displayed at the end of this menu.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="settings-menu">

<title>The Settings Menu</title>

<para>The <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu allows you to change the properties
of the main window, such as showing/hiding toolbars, and provides
access to the configuration dialogs.</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="show-toolbar"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
When this is checked, this displays a movable toolbar containing buttons used to
initiate frequently used commands. When unchecked the toolbar is hidden.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="show-statusbar"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show
Statusbar</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>When checked, this displays a small bar at the bottom of the editor
containing information about the status of the current document.  When unchecked
the status bar is hidden.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="show-path"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show
Path in Titlebar</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>When selected, this displays in the titlebar the path (its location in the
file system) of the current document.  When unchecked the path is hidden.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="view-fullscreen">
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Full Screen
Mode</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggles full screen display.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="settings-configure-shortcuts"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Shortcuts...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Display the familiar &kde; Keyboard Shortcut Configuration
Dialog.  For more information on using this, see the
<ulink url="help:/fundamentals/shortcuts.html"><emphasis>Using and Customizing
Shortcuts</emphasis> section of the <emphasis>&kde; Fundamentals</emphasis>
documentation</ulink>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="settings-configure-toolbars"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Toolbars...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Display the familiar &kde; Toolbar Configuration Dialog.  For more
information on using this, see the 
<ulink url="help:/fundamentals/config.html#toolbars"><emphasis>Customizing
Toolbars</emphasis> section of the <emphasis>&kde; Fundamentals</emphasis>
documentation</ulink>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="settings-configure-kate"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure &kate;...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Launch the <link linkend="config-dialog">Main Configuration Dialog</link></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="help-menu">

<title>The Help Menu</title>

<para>Apart from standard &kde; <guimenu>Help</guimenu> menu items
described below you will have menu entries to show the
<guimenuitem>Tip of the Day</guimenuitem> and the <guimenuitem>About
Editor Component</guimenuitem> information.</para>

&help.menu.documentation;

</sect1>

</chapter>
