<!--pulled in by kwrite-->
<sect1 id="editor-component-plugins">
<title>Editor Component Extensions</title>

<para>These plugins are available to any program using the &kate; Editor
Component.  To learn how to enable, disable, or configure them, see 
<xref linkend="pref-plugins"/>.</para>

<variablelist>

<!-- not released with 4.7
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Artistic Comment</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Format long source-code comments like license-headers
or descriptions using different style.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
-->

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>AutoBrace</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The autobrace plugin supersedes the &kappname; internal
<quote>Auto Brackets</quote> feature.
It automatically inserts a closing brace <keycap>}</keycap> at the beginning
of the next line after ending a line with an opening one <keycap>{</keycap>
and pressing the &Enter; key.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<!--http://jakob.petsovits.at/topic/kate-->
<!--Right, it's the automatic insertion of a closing brace ("}") after you ended a line with an opening one ("{"). Kate's standard insertion of parentheses, brackets and braces is simply too obtrusive for me, so even if I tried it several times I always had to disable it again because I can't stand it. So here's how AutoBrace works.
You, the developer, are writing a line of code, and want to open a new block delimited by braces. Looks like this:
If you press Enter and AutoBrace is enabled, it will insert your favorite new brace where it belongs. Looks like this:
-->

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Exporter</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This command allows you to export the current document with all highlighting
information into a HTML document using <menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Export
as HTML</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. Additionally you can use <menuchoice><guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Copy as HTML</guimenuitem></menuchoice> to copy the currently selected text
as HTML to the system clipboard.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Highlight Selection</guilabel></term>
<!--http://kate-editor.org/2010/11/14/highlight-selected-text/-->
<listitem><para>Highlights all words that match the currently selected text.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>IconInserter</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The icon inserter plugin is only of use for &kde; developers: It adds an item
<guimenuitem>Insert KIcon-Code</guimenuitem> into the context menu of the editor.
If activated, the &kde;'s icon chooser opens (showing application icons, action icons &etc;..).
If you click on it, the file name without file extension will be inserted as
text. Useful only for setting icons via &kde;'s framework through the KIcon() class.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Insert File</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This plugin allows you to insert any readable file at the cursor position.
If enabled, the <guimenu>Tools</guimenu> menu has an additional menu item
<guimenuitem>Insert File</guimenuitem>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect1>
