<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kwrite;">
  <!ENTITY package "kdebase">
  <!ENTITY i18n-powermode "(power user mode)">
  <!ENTITY fundamentals-chapter SYSTEM "fundamentals.docbook">
  <!ENTITY configuring-chapter SYSTEM "configuring.docbook">
  <!ENTITY configuring-part-sections SYSTEM "../kate/configuring-part.docbook">
  <!ENTITY menus-chapter SYSTEM "menus.docbook">
  <!ENTITY part-chapter SYSTEM "../kate/part.docbook">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &kwrite; Handbook</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Thad.McGinnis; &Thad.McGinnis.mail;</author>
<author>&Anne-Marie.Mahfouf; &Anne-Marie.Mahfouf.mail;</author>
<author>&Anders.Lund; &Anders.Lund.mail;</author>
<author>&TC.Hollingsworth; &TC.Hollingsworth.mail;</author>
<othercredit role="developer">
&Christoph.Cullmann; &Christoph.Cullmann.mail;
<!-- <contrib>Core Developer and Maintainer</contrib> -->
</othercredit>

<othercredit role="reviewer">
&Lauri.Watts; &Lauri.Watts.mail;
<!-- <contrib>Reviewer</contrib> -->
</othercredit>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2000</year><year>2001</year>
<holder>&Thad.McGinnis;</holder>
</copyright>
<copyright>
<year>2005</year>
<holder>&Anne-Marie.Mahfouf; &Anne-Marie.Mahfouf.mail;</holder>
<holder>&Anders.Lund; &Anders.Lund.mail;</holder>
</copyright>
<copyright>
<year>2011</year>
<holder>&TC.Hollingsworth; &TC.Hollingsworth.mail;</holder>
</copyright>
<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2012-01-25</date>
<releaseinfo>4.8</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>&kwrite; is a text editor for &kde; allowing you to edit one file at the time per window.</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KWrite</keyword>
<keyword>text</keyword>
<keyword>editor</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>
&kwrite; is more than a text editor for the &kde; Desktop. It is meant
to be a programmer's editor, and could be considered as at least a
partial alternative to more powerful editors.  It may be best used in
conjunction with &konqueror; or &dolphin; for source file browsing for different
languages. &kwrite; also works very well as a simple text editor.  One
of &kwrite;'s main features is the colorized syntax, customized for many
different programming languages such as: C/C++, &Java;, Python, Perl,
Bash, Modula 2, &HTML;, and Ada.
</para>
<para>&kwrite; has a single document interface (<acronym>SDI</acronym>)
allowing you to edit one file at the time per window.
</para>
<para>
&kwrite; features two different modes, a simple mode with a straightforward interface
and an advanced mode with more features and more extensive menu items.
The advanced mode is enabled by checking the option <link linkend="appearance">
Enable power user mode (&kde; 3 mode)</link>
on the <guilabel>Appearance</guilabel> page in &kappname;s
settings.
</para>
</chapter>

&fundamentals-chapter;

&part-chapter;

&menus-chapter;

&configuring-chapter;

<chapter id="credits">
<title>Credits and Licenses</title>

<para>&kwrite; Copyright 2001 by the &kate; team.</para>

<para>
Based on the original &kwrite;, which was Copyright 2000 by Jochen Wilhelmy
<email>digisnap@cs.tu-berlin.de</email>
</para>

<para>Contributions:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>&Christoph.Cullmann; &Christoph.Cullmann.mail;</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>Michael Bartl <email>michael.bartl1@chello.at</email></para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>Phlip <email>phlip_cpp@my-deja.com</email></para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>&Anders.Lund; &Anders.Lund.mail;</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>Matt Newell <email>newellm@proaxis.com</email></para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>&Joseph.Wenninger; &Joseph.Wenninger.mail;</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>Jochen Wilhelmy <email>digisnap@cs.tu-berlin.de</email></para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>&Michael.Koch; &Michael.Koch.mail;</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>&Christian.Gebauer; &Christian.Gebauer.mail;</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>&Simon.Hausmann; &Simon.Hausmann.mail;</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>Glen Parker <email>glenebob@nwlink.com</email></para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>Scott Manson <email>sdmanson@altel.net</email></para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>&John.Firebaugh; &John.Firebaugh.mail;</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>
Original documentation by &Thad.McGinnis; &Thad.McGinnis.mail;
</para>

<para>
Updated  by &Anne-Marie.Mahfouf; &Anne-Marie.Mahfouf.mail; and
&Anders.Lund; &Anders.Lund.mail;
</para>

<para>
This version of the &kwrite; Handbook is based on the original by
&Cristian.Tibirna; &Cristian.Tibirna.mail;
</para>

<para>
Converted to docbook/proofreading by &Lauri.Watts; &Lauri.Watts.mail;
</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;
&underGPL;
</chapter>

&documentation.index;
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-namecase-general: t
sgml-namecase-entity: nil
sgml-general-insert-case: lower
sgml-minimize-attributes: nil
sgml-omittag: nil
End:
-->

